---
layout: hw
title: Classwork for Thursday, Friday, and HW 4
published: true
---

You already know that you can make variables of type **String**. Another type is **int**. An int variable holds an integer value. For example, you can create a private instance variable in a class like this:

> private int speed;

This would create a variable named **speed** that could hold an integer value.

You can set or modify an int variable with an assignment statement. Some examples:

> speed=5; // sets speed to 5<p/>
> speed=20+3; // sets speed to 23<p/>
> speed = speed + 1; // sets speed to one more than speeds old value

In general you can use +,-,/, and * along with parentheses.

##### Part 1

You are going to create a class **Turtle** it should have three instance variables:

 * A String for its name
 * An int for its age
 * An int for its speed

Turtles should have the following constructors:

 * one that accepts no parameters
 * one that accepts just a name parameter and gives reasonable values for age and speed
 * one that accepts parameters for all three instance variables.

Turtles should also have the following methods:

 * public void speedUp(int n) - this adds n to the current speed (n is an int)
 * public void slowDown(int n) - subtracts n from the speed
 * public void getOlder() - adds one to age
 * get methods for speed, name, and age

Write a Driver class that creates one or more turtles and tests your class.
 

##### Part 2

This is an addon to part 1 - it should use the same Driver and you shoud write it in the same directory.

Create a class Person which will represent a person. It should have the following instance variables:

 * name 
 * turtle (which is the class type Turtle we created in part 1)

There should be a constructor that just accepts a name.

Write a method:
 
> public void setTurtle(Turtle t)

You should be able to pass a Turtle (like you created in part 1) in as a parameter and store it in the Turtle.

Write a method:

> public Turtle getPet()

which returns that turtle

And write:

> public int getTurtleSpeed()

Which will return the speed of the person's pet turtle.

