---
layout: hw
title: Classwork 13 - A Rational class
published: true
---

For this homework, please follow the names and specifications exactly.

You are going to write a class named Rational (just like on the test).

The homework folder should be named 13-Rational, the class, Rational.java and the driver Driver.java.

A rational number is a number in the form a/b where **a** and **b** are integers. 

First create a basic Rational class that can represent a rational
number in this form.

Make sure the class has appropriate constructors as well as methods to
set the numerator and denominator.

Add the following methods to your Rational class (it assumes you're storing your rational as a/b with a the numerator and b the denominator:

>
    public int gcd(a,b) {
      if (b=0)
       return a;
      else {
       return gcd(b,a%b);
    } 

    public void reduce() {
      a = a / gcd(a,b);
      b - b / gcd(a,b);
    }


Write the following methods

 1. **public boolean equals(Rational other)** -- returns True if the Rational number represented by **other** is the same as the one represented by **this**.
 2. **public Rational mult(Rational other)** -- create and return a **new** Rational that is the result of multiplying **other** and **this**. For example if the two rational numbers were 4/3 and 1/2 the mult routine would create a new Rational number representing 4/6 (or 2/3 when reduced).
 3. **public int compareTo(Rational other)** -- returns 0 if **this** and **other** represent equal rational numbers, a positive value if **this** represents a rational number greater than the one represented by **other** and a negative number is returned otherwise.

Make sure that your Driver program prints out results to show that all these routines work.

