---
layout: hw
title: Homework 16 - Stuyablo 2 part 3 
published: true
---

**By tonight (Friday 11/1)**

One person from each group should post to the mailing list:

 * The way a character will be represented (what are min and max values for strength, dexterity, intelligene, will you use x,y or distance).
 * How will the combat system work (what calculations will determine a hit or miss as well as damage.
 * How will flee work.
 * How will an encounter work (what choices will you have)

If we can all agree on one system all the characters can be used
interchangeably. I would like you to try to decide on one of the proposals to use online via email. 

**By the end of the weekend**

I made a directory under the **classwork** GitHub repository named **Stuyablo** and under each, a directory for each class.

 * Got to your class directory
 * Make a folder for your group - you can name it anything you want.
 * Make a file named README.md in that directory. It should name all the group members and describe the combat system and how characters are represented. It should be a plane text file (formatted with Markdown if you know what that is).
 * You should also be working on the Java files for your characters. All characters should extend the **Character** class that I have provided.

**Final Due Date and details**

The project is due on Wednesday 11/6 before class. By then your repository should have:

 * An updated README.md file explaining your classes
 * Your player and non player classes
 * A Driver that will show how they work (by instantiating characters and running encounters). Try player vs player, player vs npc, npc vs npc etc.
 * Anything else needed to run things.


**Remember to git add, git commit, and git push your files and remember to git pull every time before you work (and before you push) to make sure you get updates from your teammates).**

**I also encourage you to talk across teams and classes on this.**




