---
layout: hw
title:  HW 2 connecting to school
published: true
---

Due 9/25

This homework will step you through connecting to school from home as well as using GitHub.

### Connecting to school

For this, you need an ssh client. 


##### For the Mac or Linux

 * You can just open up a terminal
 * type **ssh username@machinename** where machinename is the machine you want to connect to and username is the username you use to log into the computers in room 307.
 * Machines you can connect to: 149.89.150.101, 149.89.150.102 up to 149.89.150.130 (although some might be down).
 * You will then be asked for a password.
 * Once you're logged in, it's just like you're in a terminal at Stuy. The only restriction is that you can't run graphical programs. If you type **emacs** it will load in terminal mode, but you can use javac, emacs, git, etc.

##### For Windows

 * Download [putty](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html) - a windows based ssh client
 * Run it, open a connection to one of the machines listed in the Mac and Linux section. Make sure you've clicked the button for **ssh** connection and the port should be 22.
 * Specify your username as the username you use to log in in 307.
 * Once you're logged in, it's just like you're in a terminal at Stuy. The only restriction is that you can't run graphical programs. If you type **emacs** it will load in terminal mode, but you can use javac, emacs, git, etc.

##### Setting up ssh for git on the stuy machines.

 * open an ssh terminal to a stuy machine.
 * Open a web browser to github, log in, then go to the settings then SSH keys page.
 * Follow the **generate ssh-keys** guide (linked at the top of the page). Where it says to type something into the terminal, do it in the ssh window EXCEPT step 3. Instead, just type **cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub** and then copy it using the mouse.

##### Cloning to Stuy

 * ssh to stuy.
 * You can run git clone *repository* to clone the **hw** and **classcode** repositories to stuy. These should be the repositories:
  * git@github.com:stuycs-apcs-z/hw.git
  * https://github.com/stuycs-apcs-z/classcode.git

 * Remember to clone using the ssh link (look to mid-lower right hand side of the repository page for the link and make sure to click ssh if it says https or subversion. If there isn't an ssh link (which there might not be for some repositories, use the https one.
 * Now, you can ssh in from home, cd into either repository (hw or classcode)  and do a **git pull** some time during the evening and your stuy account will always have the most up to date files.

##### What to do

Now that you're ssh'ed into Stuy and have cloned the **hw** and **classcode** repositories you are going to make a homework 2 entry. 

 1. change into your hw directory. You can do this using the cd command. Note that **cd** **enter** will bring you back to your home directory. This assumes that you cloned in your home directory.
  * cd
  * cd hw/1/zamansky_michael
 1. make a folder for hw 2: **mkdir 2-greeter**
 3. change into it: **cd 2-greeter**
 4. Add the files for Greeter.java and Driver.java. You can copy them or retype them. You can look [here](http://linuxcommand.org/learning_the_shell.php) for a reference for the Linux terminal commands (look at the navigation and manipulating files section).
 5. Add and commit them
  * git add Driver.java
  * git add Greeter.java
  * git commit -a -m "Added driver and greeter java files"
 6. Push them
  * git push

At this point, you should be able to go to the GitHub site and navigate to your folder and see the files you pushed

Remember, you only clone once per machine. The general workflow is:

##### Important notes

Some times when you **git push** you might see that other people have
changed things so you might have to do a **git pull** before your
push. If anything more complex arises, post to the mailing list.

Also, remember you only clone once per machine. Usually this will be your workflow



 1. cd into the repository
 2. git pull
 3. Work on files, if you add new ones, **git add** them if you need to delete them **git rm** them.
 4. periodically **git commit -a -m "message"** to store your changes locally.
 5. git push when you want to send the changes to the server.

