---
published: true
layout: hw
title: Classwork 05 - Merge Sort Binary Seach
---

This is the class assignment for Thursday 3/6

You will have the class period on Thursday 3/6 to work on this. It
will be due on Monday 3/10. There might be an additional assignment
over the weekend.

Put all of this under homework 05.

####1.

 1. Rewrite the merge sort so that it works with an ArrayList of the interface type Comparable.
 2. Test your code with an ArrayList of Strings and one of Integers
 3. Create a class Person which holds a name and an age.
 4. Have person implement Comparable. Have the compareTo routine:
  a. First compare based on age - test it in mergesort
  b. Then compare on name - again test in mergesort
  

####2.

When you have an unsorted list, the only way to search for an item is
a **linear search** - start at the first item and loop over the entire
list until you either find the item or run out of items. This has an
O(n) run time.

If the list is sorted, we can do much better using a **binary search**.

We start by looking in the middle.

If that's what we're looking for, we're done.

If not, determine if what we're looking for is in the upper half or
the lower half of the list and then search only that half.

This is much faster.

 1. Try to write a recursive routine **rbsearch(int n, int[] L)** which will perform a binary search for value **n** in array **L**. It will return the index of the item if found and a -1 otherwise.
 2. Write **ibsearch(int n, int[] L)** which will implement an iterative (that is, no recursion, with a loop) version of a binary searcn.

